[DOCS-231] Best Practices: Prevent Security Misconfiguration (#157)
cobalthq/cobalt-product-public-docs: content/en/BestPractices/prevent-security-misconfig.md

     - For a .NET application, update the `Web.config` or `Machine.config` file:

          ```
          <compilation debug="false"/>
          ```

### Verbose Error Messages

Similar to the [previous example](#debug-mode-enabled), an attacker may retrieve sensitive data from verbose error messages or a stack trace.

To prevent this:

- Don't expose a stack trace to users
- Configure custom error messages for your software
     - For a .NET application, modify the `Web.config` file:

          ```
          <system.web>
          <customErrors mode="RemoteOnly" defaultRedirect="Error.aspx">
          <error statusCode="401" redirect="CustomPage.aspx" />
          <error statusCode="403" redirect="CustomPage.aspx" />
          <error statusCode="404" redirect="NotFound.aspx" />
          <error statusCode="500" redirect="Error.aspx" />
          </customErrors>
          </system.web>
          ```

### Directory Listing

Directory listing allows users to see all files and directories stored on a web server. A malicious actor may get unauthorized access to sensitive files. Search the web with `intitle: "index of /"` to see websites that have directory listing enabled.

> In the following example, we show how to prevent this problem for an Apache Tomcat web server:

Reviewer: I'm a little worried about this -- 

The "Apache Tomcat web server" and "Apache web server" are two different services. Maybe the simplest solution is:

```suggestion
In the following example, we show how to prevent this problem for a Tomcat web server:
```

1. Open the `conf/web.xml` file in the directory where Tomcat is installed.

> 
>      - In Windows 10, the default installation directory is `C:\Program Files (x86)\Apache Software Foundation\Tomcat 9.0`.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need this info -- in fact, most developers don't work on Windows -- and when they do it's on an instance of Microsoft Server. So I'd delete this completely: 

```suggestion
```

1. In the file, set `<param-value>false</param-value>` to `false` for `<param-name>listings</param-name>`:

     ```
     <servlet>
          <servlet-name>default</servlet-name>
          <servlet-class>org.apache.catalina.servlets.DefaultServlet</servlet-class>
          <init-param>
               <param-name>debug</param-name>
               <param-value>0</param-value>
          </init-param>
          <init-param>
               <param-name>listings</param-name>
               <param-value>false</param-value>
          </init-param>
          <load-on-startup>1</load-on-startup>
     </servlet>
     ```

1. In the Apache web server, create a `.htaccess` file in the related directory.

> 1. Add the following lines to the `httpd.conf` file, or replace existing lines with:

Reviewer: The actual configuration file name varies. IIRC, while it's `httpd.conf` for Red Hat Enterprise Linux, it's `apache2.conf` on at least Ubuntu (and I think Debian-based systems). And in some cases, Apache is set up to take custom config files in a `conf.d/` subdirectory. So I suggest:

```suggestion
1. Add the following lines to the Apache web server configuration file file, or replace existing lines with:
```

     ```
     <Directory /{YOUR DIRECTORY}>
     Options FollowSymLinks
     </Directory>
     ```

To turn directory listing off, modify the configuration files of your web server.

### Default Accounts

A developer may forget to remove default accounts when releasing the application.

Examples of default accounts:

- Application accounts
- Web server logins
- Cloud instances
- Databases

To prevent this:

- Delete default accounts from the development environment once the development is complete
- Change default passwords that come with installation packages
- Restrict the exposure of administrator pages and web server logins in the production environment
- Establish a strong password policy for your accounts

### Files or Directories in a URL Path

Sensitive files that may appear in a URL path include:

- Backup files
- Log files

> - Database files

Reviewer: @shadixit, could an attacker also try to access config files with the same "brute force" methods? If so, I might add one line:

```suggestion
- Database files
- Configuration files
```

Reviewer 2: Yes if configuration files with sensitive data are left in webroot, e.g. .env files, it can be picked up by URL bruteforcing. It is fine to add this.

An attacker may discover sensitive files by brute-forcing the URL paths.

To prevent this:

- Remove any sensitive files or directories from the URL paths

> - Check your code before releasing it

Reviewer: @shadixit, what would a developer check their code for? What would they include in their code to prevent "brute-forcing"?

Reviewer 2: Developers should check for any directory/file or resource, which is only meant for the Dev environment and should not be committed in the Production environment as brute-forcing can discover hidden contents.

Reviewer: Does this work, @shadixit ?

```suggestion
- Check your code before releasing it
  - Avoid committing code that is meant only for the development environment
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, it will.

> - To prevent URL fuzzing or a brute-force attack, apply a web application firewall and rate limiting checks

Reviewer: Another question -- if I understand correctly, "rate limiting checks" are one of the rules that you can apply from a web application firewall. If so, I suggest:

```suggestion
- To prevent URL fuzzing or a brute-force attack, apply a web application firewall with rate limiting checks
```

Reviewer: In addition, I'm not sure that rate limiting checks would protect configuration files, especially since they're typically small.

Reviewer: @shadixit: As for additional protection, how do you feel about options like SELinux? I realize that it's a pain for many developers, but it is a Mandatory Access Control system that works even when the root user is compromised. ([reference](https://www.whitewinterwolf.com/posts/2015/08/20/can-selinux-really-confine-the-root-user/))

(Of course, a malicious hacker who knows Linux could change SELinux settings, but that takes time and manual work.)

If you agree, I might add something like:

```
- Set up mandatory access control systems such as SELinux to protect key files
```

Reviewer 2: @mjang-cobalt this sounds good, it can be added.

### Misconfigured Cloud Services

Misconfigurations in the cloud infrastructure or services may lead to data compromise. For example, an [Amazon S3 bucket](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) with insufficient configuration may grant read and write access to an attacker.

To prevent this:

> - Implement security automation to identify misconfigurations

Reviewer: What's an example of "security automation" that someone could use to identify a misconfiguration? If you know of one, we could say:

```suggestion
- Implement security automation to identify misconfigurations, such as [something](with a link).
```

Reviewer 2: Implement security automation to identify misconfigurations, such as using DAST tools in CI-CD pipelines to identify such vulnerabilities. Ref: https://www.zaproxy.org/alerttags/owasp_2021_a05/

Reviewer: @shadixit I've modified your suggestion a bit:

- I've pointed directly to the zaproxy.org website (instead of the list of checks)
- I've removed the CI-CD reference, as people can use OWASP Zap from a UI (and I'm guessing also from the command line)

> 

Reviewer: Bullets should not be separated by a blank line

```suggestion
```

- Install updates and review your cloud security configurations on a regular basis

## Best Practices

> - Follow a security checklist to prevent common misconfigurations

Reviewer: Do you have an example of a well known "security checklist" that prevents misconfigurations?

Reviewer 2: @mjang-cobalt  the idea here is to have a focussed checklist based on the application stack. developers can create a custom list where they can include all that is needed to be checked such as default logins, files in the URL path, debug, etc before pushing the application into production.

Reviewer 3: So perhaps "Create and follow a security checklist" would make more sense? 

An example for the reader to start from could be really helpful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create and follow a security checklist
```
